# Hashing notes

- o(1) => direct access to elements (t)
- it is a technique to place large key value of key to
- here the location is calculated on the basis of key fuction using key itself

- hash table => array of constant size (preferably size will be a prime no. (in which a key will be placed in specified location on basis of hash value ))
- it is used to transform the key into   the physical address in the hash table


## Key Components
- Hash Function: Converts a key into an index. A good hash function distributes keys uniformly to minimize collisions.
- Hash Table: An array where data is stored at positions determined by the hash function.
- Collision: Occurs when two keys hash to the same index. Handled using:
- Separate Chaining: Store multiple values at the same index using linked lists.
- Open Addressing: Find another open slot using probing techniques like linear or quadratic probing.


# need of hashing :
=> used to facilitate it involve clase the comparision and searching and perform in constant time

## colision:
- it is defined as situation when two or more distinct key are having tha same hash value. 
- this is main the problem of hashing technique when address generated by the hash function 
- the function hash should be easy and quick to compute 
- the fxn should uniformly distribute 

# Hahsing technique:

## Direct Hashing : 
    - here the hash value is the key itself. 
    - the advantage of this tech is that there is no collision 
    - the disadvantage is that address space should be as large as largest key value so it is not suitable for large key

## Mid-squre method:
    - it is most commonly used method for address calculation 
    - in this method the key value is squared and two or three digit are taken on the middle of the squared key value .
    - the advantage is the there will be colision and sometime it is diffcult to calculate the square of large value.

## module division method:
    - this is the one of the first method came to mapping the keys to address space 
    - disadvantage is colision

## digit extraction method:
    -selected digits are extracted from the key as used as address.
    - disadvantage is also colision

## Foldiing method:
    - in this method the key value partisoned in two parts , each part with the same no of digits then parts are folded over each other and adding these parts 
    - ex : if 532741370 then they are divided in three parts like 532, 741, 370. then they added together with each other 532+741+370 and extra carry digit is discarded.

## MULTI     